This Bachelor Semester Project plans on implementing different traversal and pathfinding algorithms such as: Depth-First Search, Breadth-First Search, Greedy-First, and A*, and compare their advantages and disadvantages in the given multi-agent dynamic environment.

Activity report link below: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1VsJ7idaLD1-H399FrredfBYYr_Tv9wYj2a5Ua_a5NCk/edit#gid=1449240152

-------------

The scientific deliverable of this Bachelor Semester Project is to study and practice various problem solving and pathfinding algorithms and understand their strengths and flaws in different scenarios in order to analyze which of the implemented algorithms are the most efficient for the two agents trying to execute their tasks. The highlight of the scientific deliverable is the dynamic nature of the environment that the agents are in. In a dynamic environment where the terrain can be modified, the pathfinding needs to be adaptive to the environment and react quickly to the changes. The strength of real-time dynamic pathfinding comes from the versatility of the agent, as they would react to the environment, unlike a static approach. If the environment has been altered during the process of travel, the static approach would fail to help the agent get to its destination. A dynamic approach could however detect the changes in the environment and act make decisions accordingly. Given this advantage for dynamic pathfinding, the static approach would still be favorable in terms of efficiency, as the algorithm needs to be run only once at the beginning, and not at every step of the traversal process.

The technical deliverable of this BSP is to study and practice the basics of game design, alongside implementing the dynamic pathfinding algorithm mentioned in the scientific description. The core premise of the gameplay will be a game of hunter and prey inside a dynamic, randomly generated maze, where one of the AI agents who control the prey will run away from the hunter using reverse traversal algorithms, while also changing the structure of the maze by moving an adjacent wall so that the hunter can be confused and avoided. At the same time, different pathfinding algorithms will be used by the hunter in order to catch the prey, while also being able to move adjacent walls around. Via this battle of AI agents, the best algorithm will be found via comparing the results, which will be the average times each algorithm match-up takes.